## Optimizing Water Supply through Reservoir Conversion and Storage of Return Flow: a Case Study at Joe Pool Lake
Maintaining an adequate water supply is one of the key challenges faced by the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, where increasing population and rising water demand have elevated the vulnerability of the communities to water shortages. We conducted a preliminary study exploring the possibility of converting flood storage in the Joe Pool Lake to improve water supply reliability and achieve better cost efficiency. This study employs a mixed integer linear programming approach that considers the costs of using flood storage conversion to meet water needs over the northern portion of the Trinity River Basin. It includes tradeoffs between capturing and storing runoff versus return flow from the wastewater treatment facilities of the Trinity River Authority. A set of hypothetical prices and demand figures with the period of record of 1940–1996 was considered to test the mixed integer linear programming model. Results from the mixed integer linear programming produce an optimal strategy that increases the firm yield of Joe Pool Lake and associated storage-diversion on an annual basis. Also, the outcomes of the analyses of the results suggest that while the conversion would have a positive impact on water availability, a lower expansion cost of $20 per acre-foot per year would be required to produce sufficient cost savings.

This repository contains the code for the optimization published in this work. The journal article can also be found in this link: <link> https://twj-ojs-tdl.tdl.org/twj/index.php/twj/article/view/7124 </link>
